##### Things to remember:
- 
Pointers are special `type`. Pointers are variables which stores *memory locations* instead of actual value. Whenever we declare a pointer with a memory location, it `0`s out that memory location i.e. the it makes the value in that memory location as default value of the `type` of the variable which is `int32` in our case.

Pointers are really useful when passing in large parameters so you don’t have to create copies of the data every time you call a function wasting memory.

```Go
package main

func main() {
	var p *int32 = new(int32)
	var i int32
	fmt.Printf("The value p points to is: ", *p)// op: 0
	*p = 10 // assigning value to the pointer
	fmt.Printf("The value p points to is: ", *p)// op: 10
	p = &i	
	*p = 12
	fmt.Printf("\nThe value p points to is: %v\n", *p) // op: 12
	fmt.Printf("The value of i is: %v\n", i) // op: 12
}
```

Using `new()`, we can assign a memory location for the *value* to be stored. To change the value the pointer points to we can assign with `*` in front of the variable and assign a value.

`&` means “address of” in go. `&x` means give me the memory address of `x`

If we don’t initialize the pointer with `new(int32)` in the above example, we don’t get a compiler error. Rather, we get a runtime error because the initialized pointer has `nil` value as we didn’t assign a memory location to store the value of the pointer.  

> **Note:** The `*` notation does double duty. When declaring a pointer `var p *int32 = new(int32)`, we tell compiler that we want to initialize a pointer. However, in other line we use `*p` to reference the value of the pointer.

When we assign one variable to another, the value of one variable is copied to another memory location for another variable.
```Go
var i int32
var k int32 = 2
i = k
fmt.Println("The value of i is:", i) // op: 2
fmt.Println("The value of k is:", k) // op: 2
```

However when we are working with slice, if we make a copy of a *slice* and change the value of the copied slice, the value of the original slice is also changed. This is because, under the hood, slices contain pointers to the underlying array.

```Go
var slice = []int32{1, 2, 3}
var sliceCopy = slice
sliceCopy[2] = 4
fmt.Println(slice) // op: [1, 2, 4]
fmt.Println(sliceCopy) // op: [1, 2 , 4]
```

**Example:**
```Go
func main() {
	var thing1 = [5]float64{1, 2, 3, 4, 5}
	fmt.Printf("\nThe memory location of thing1 arrary is: %p", &thing1)
	var result [5]float64 = square(&thing1)
	fmt.Printf("\nThe result is: %v", result)
	fmt.Printf("\nThe values of thing1 is: %v", thing1)
}

func square(thing2 *[5]float64) [5]float64 {
	fmt.Printf("\nThe memory location of the thing2 is array is: %p", thing2)
	for i := range thing2 {
		thing2[i] = thing2[i] * thing2[i]
	}
	return *thing2
}

func rectangle(thing3 *[6]float) [6]float64 {

}
```

Instead of using actual value as a parameter in the function `square()` we pass in pointer `thing2 *[5]float64`. This will use the reference to `thing1` instead of making a copy of `thing1` every time the function is called.