### 6.1 Array
The four main points to remember for array is:
- Fixed Length
- Same Type
- Indexable
- Contiguous in Memory

##### 6.1.1. Declaring and Creating an Array
 ```Go
var intArr [3]int32
fmt.Println(intArr) // output: [0, 0, 0]

var intArr = [3]int8{2, 3, 4}
fmt.Println(intArr) //output: [2, 3, 4]

// with shorthand method
intArr := [3]int8{3, 4, 5} 
fmt.Println(intArr) //output: [3, 4, 5]

// declaring the length of the array with ...
var intArr = [...]int8{2, 3, 4}
```
 The above code shows that array with variable name `intArr` with fixed length can be declared and assigned in three different ways.

Instead of declaring the length of the array manually, `...` operator can be used and values can be assgned. The length of an array will be automatically counted depending on how many values are assigned in that array.

##### 6.1.2. Indexing
The array in Go can be indexed with following ways:
- `intArr` &rarr; `[0, 0, 0]`
- `intArr[0]` &rarr; `0`
- `intArr[0:3]` &rarr; `[0, 0]`, Here `0` is inclusive and `3` is exclusive. 
- `intArr[1] = 20` &rarr; `[0, 20, 0]`, Value of an item in an array can be changed.

##### 6.1.3. Contiguous in Memory
The contents of an array is stored in memory location continuously. Meaning, each value of the array is stored in adjacent memory location.
```Go
func main() {
	var intArr [3]int32 = [3]int32{2, 4, 5}
	fmt.Println("The memory address of the arrary is", &intArr[0]) //& prints out the memory location of that variable.
	fmt.Println("The memory address of the arrary is", &intArr[1])
	fmt.Println("The memory address of the arrary is", &intArr[2])
}
// output: 
//The memory address of the arrary is 0xc000184040 (each location is 1 byte)
//The memory address of the arrary is 0xc000184044
//The memory address of the arrary is 0xc000184048
```

In the above code, the array `int32` can store 4 bytes of data. So, the array of size `3` will allocate 12 bytes of contiguous memory. Which means that the first value of the array is stored in first 4 bytes, second value in the second 4 bytes and so on. 

The compiler doesn’t need to store memory location for each element. Just, storing the first element’s memory location is enough. The memory location of the second value in that array can be retrieved by adding 1 to the first memory address. Therefore, to retrieve the position of n<sup>th</sup> element, we can add n to the first memory address.

### 6.2 Slice
A *slice* is a flexible view into array. 
##### 6.2.1 Declaring and Creating a Slice
There are various methods of creating the slice just like an array. The slice can be declared just like array but without declaring the length. 
```Go
// basic way of declaring and assigningslice
var intSlice = []int8{1,2,3} // the slice is created with length 3
fmt.Println(intSlice) //output: 

// shorthand method
intSlice := []int8{2, 3, 4}
fmt.Println(intSlice) // output: [2, 3, 4]
```

Slice can also be declared with `make()` function. We can pass in the *type*, *length* and optionally the *capacity* of the slice as parameters in `make()`  function.
```Go
var intSlice []int32 = make([]int32, 3, 8)
fmt.Println("Size ", len(intSlice)) // output: 3
fmt.Println("Capacity ", cap(intSlice)) // output: 8
```
In the above code, `3` is the *length* and `8` is the capacity of the slice.

##### 6.2.2 Slice Operations
- **Append:**
A value can be appended into a slice with the following command:
```Go
intSlice := []int8{2, 3, 4}
intSlice = append(intSlice, 7)
fmt.Println("The slice after appending 7 is: ", intSlice)
```

The slice has predefined *capacity* when it gets created. However, after appending the value to the slice, if the length of the slice is equal to the capacity of the slice, a new slice is created in another memory location with the increased capacity.

The *length* and *capacity* of the slice can be extracted with `len()` and `cap()` functions.
```Go
intSlice := []int8{2, 3, 4}
fmt.Println(len(intSlice)) // output: 3
fmt.Println(cap(intSlice)) // output: 3
intSlice = append(intSlice, 7)
fmt.Println(len(intSlice)) // output: 4
fmt.Println(cap(intSlice)) // output: 8
```

`append(slice, element)` function expects any number of elements as second parameter. Therefore, if we pass a `slice` as the second argument `...` must be used to unpack the contents of that slice to each individual elements.

This is the signature of the append function:
```Go
func append(slice []T, elements ...T) []T
```

To delete an element from a slice we use the following idiom: 
```Go
*l = append(ls[:i-1], ls[i:]...)
```
Here, we are deleting an element from a `slice`. In the second parameter, we pass the remaining elements after the deleted element as a slice. Therefore,  `...` is used to unpack the contents of the slice to each individual element.